User solutoin to Cses 1706 (#3653)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/platinum/cses-1706.mdx

Reviewer: I just realized there's already a solution in the module, so there's no need for a separate internal solution. can you remove this file and add your Python solution to the module?

Author: Remove the C++ code ?

Reviewer: yes

Author: I removed it

Reviewer: can you also remove this file and add your Python solution to the module?

Author: It's allright now ?

Author: Done. I added the python code to Bitsets.mdx and I removed the cses-1706.mdx. It's allright now ?

---
id: cses-1706
source: CSES
title: School Excursion
author: Brebenel Mihnea
---

## Explanation

> The solution is based on DSU ([Disjoin Set Union](https://usaco.guide/gold/dsu?lang=cpp))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The solution is based on DSU ([Disjoint Set Union](/gold/dsu))
```

as mentioned in https://usaco.guide/general/adding-solution?lang=cpp

Author: Done

> For example: If 2 and 3 want  the same thing and 3 and 4 want the same think, so it means that 2, 3 and 4 want the same thing. After we determine the components, we need to find out every combination of them. To do that, we use a knapsack DP (you can find a good tutorial [here](https://usaco.guide/gold/knapsack?lang=cpp)). But it would take $O(N ^ 2)$, which will cause TLE. In order to speed it up, we use a bitset as a knpasack. The final complexity is $\mathcal{O}(N\log^2N)$

Reviewer: do the same thing for the link here, and end sentences with periods. use `\mathcal O` for all time complexities

Author: Done

Reviewer: knapsack link wasn't updated

Author: Sorry ! I updated it

Reviewer: there are still sentences that don't end with periods. also, think -> thing

Author: It's ok now ?

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log^2N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bitset>
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

const int NMAX = 2e5;

int n, m;

class DSU {  // Disjoint Set Union
  private:

> 	int t[NMAX], sz[NMAX];

Reviewer 2: use vectors and size this dynamically according to input

Author: Done

  public:
	DSU() {
		for (int i = 1; i < NMAX; i++) {
			t[i] = i;
			sz[i] = 1;
		}
	}

> 	int FindSize(int x) { return sz[FindRoot(x)]; }

Reviewer 2: snake_case for method names

Author: Done

	int FindRoot(int x) {
		if (t[x] == x) return x;
		t[x] = FindRoot(t[x]);
		return t[x];
	}
	void unite(int x, int y) {
		x = FindRoot(x), y = FindRoot(y);
		sz[y] += sz[x];
		t[x] = y;
	}
} ds;

int main() {
	scanf("%d %d", &n, &m);
	for (int i = 1; i <= m; i++) {
		int x, y;
		scanf("%d %d", &x, &y);
		ds.unite(x, y);
	}
	vector<int> sizes;
	for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
		if (ds.FindRoot(i) != i) continue;
		sizes.push_back(ds.FindSize(i));
	}

	bitset<100003> dp;
	dp[0] = 1;
	for (auto sz : sizes) dp |= dp << sz;

	// The above line shifts the knapsack to the right by sz bits

	for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) cout << dp[i];
	puts("");
}
```

</CPPSection>
<PySection>

```py
class DisjointSet:
	parent = {}
	sz = []

> 	def makeSet(self, sz):

Reviewer 2: same here

Author: Done

		# create `n` disjoint sets (one for each item)
		self.sz.append(1)
		for i in range(1, sz + 1):
			self.parent[i] = i
			self.sz.append(1)

	def Find(self, k):
		if self.parent[k] == k:
			return k
		return self.Find(self.parent[k])

	def FindSize(self, x):
		return self.sz[self.Find(x)]

	def Union(self, a, b):
		x = self.Find(a)
		y = self.Find(b)
		self.sz[y] += self.sz[x]
		self.parent[x] = y

n, m = map(int, input().split(" "))

ds = DisjointSet()

> ds.makeSet(100003)

Reviewer 2: yeah size this according to n (or the input)

Author: Done

---
id: cses-1706
source: CSES
title: School Excursion
author: Brebenel Mihnea
---

## Explanation

The solution is based on DSU ([Disjoint Set Union](/gold/dsu)).

> For example: If 2 and 3 want the same thing and 3 and 4 want the same thing it means that 2, 3 and 4 want the same thing. After we determine the components we need to find out every combination of them. To do that we use a knapsack DP (you can find a good tutorial [here](/gold/knapsack)). But it would take $\mathcal{O}(N ^ 2)$ which will cause TLE. In order to speed it up we use a bitset as a knpasack. The final complexity is $\mathcal{O}(N\log^2N)$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: If 2 and 3 want the same thing and 3 and 4 want the same thing it means that 2, 3 and 4 want the same thing. After we determine the components we need to find out every combination of them. To do that we use a knapsack DP (you can find a good tutorial [here](/gold/knapsack)). But it would take $\mathcal{O}(N ^ 2)$ which will cause TLE. In order to speed it up we use a bitset as a knapsack. The final complexity is $\mathcal{O}(N\log^2N)$.
```

Reviewer: also, this time complexity seems wrong

Reviewer: still looks wrong, how did you come up with N log N?

Author: It's $\mathcal{O}(N) $ amortized complexity. I think that log N comes from shifting bits and the DSU.

Reviewer: I don't think so. could you explain your reasoning?

Author: Well, in the worst case every kid could be a component (when $m = 0$). From here comes $N$ in the complexity. The $\log N$ comes from shifting bits or from the DSU operations.

Reviewer: that's wrong, operations on a bitset of length N take time proportional to N (but the constant factor is good)

Author: Oh, I didn't know that. So it would be $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ ?
